Docs: Rewrite "Install OpenVINO Development Tools" page (#13348)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/install_guides/installing-model-dev-tools.md

# Install OpenVINO™ Development Tools {#openvino_docs_install_guides_install_dev_tools}

OpenVINO Development Tools is a set of utilities that make it easy to develop and optimize models and applications for OpenVINO. It provides the following tools:

* Model Optimizer
* Benchmark Tool
* Accuracy Checker and Annotation Converter
* Post-Training Optimization Tool
* Model Downloader and other Open Model Zoo tools

The instructions on this page show how to install OpenVINO Development Tools. If you are a Python developer, it only takes a few simple steps to install the tools with PyPI. If you are developing in C++, OpenVINO Runtime must be installed separately before installing OpenVINO Development Tools.

In both cases, Python 3.6 - 3.10 need be installed on your machine before starting.

> **NOTE**: From the 2022.1 release, the OpenVINO™ Development Tools can only be installed via PyPI. 

> ### <a name="python-developers"></a>For Python Developers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a name="python-developers"></a>For Python Developers
```

> The instructions on this page show how to install OpenVINO Development Tools. If you are a Python developer, it only takes a few simple steps to install the tools with PyPI: see the <a href="openvino_docs_install_guides_install_dev_tools.html#python-developers">For Python Developers</a> section for more information. If you are developing in C++, OpenVINO Runtime must be installed separately before installing OpenVINO Development Tools: see the <a href="openvino_docs_install_guides_install_dev_tools.html#cpp-developers">For C++ Developers</a> section for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The instructions on this page show how to install OpenVINO Development Tools. If you are a Python developer, it only takes a few simple steps to install the tools with PyPI. If you are developing in C++, OpenVINO Runtime must be installed separately before installing OpenVINO Development Tools.
```

If you are a Python developer, follow the steps in the <a href="openvino_docs_install_guides_install_dev_tools.html#install-dev-tools">Installing OpenVINO Development Tools</a> section on this page to install it. Installing OpenVINO Development Tools will also install OpenVINO Runtime as a dependency, so you don’t need to install OpenVINO Runtime separately. This option is recommended for new users.
   

> ### <a name="cpp-developers"></a>For C++ Developers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a name="cpp-developers"></a>For C++ Developers
```

If you are a C++ developer, you must first install OpenVINO Runtime separately to set up the C++ libraries, sample code, and dependencies for building applications with OpenVINO. These files are not included with the PyPI distribution. See the [Install OpenVINO Runtime](./installing-openvino-runtime.md) page to install OpenVINO Runtime from an archive file for your operating system.

> Once OpenVINO Runtime is installed, you may install OpenVINO Development Tools for access to tools like Model Optimizer, Model Downloader, Benchmark Tool, and other utilities that will help you optimize your model and develop your application. Follow the steps in the <a href="openvino_docs_install_guides_install_dev_tools.html#install-dev-tools">Installing OpenVINO Development Tools</a> section on this page to install it. In Step 4, make sure that you follow the instructions in the "C++" tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once OpenVINO Runtime is installed, you may install OpenVINO Development Tools for access to tools like Model Optimizer, Model Downloader, Benchmark Tool, and other utilities that will help you optimize your model and develop your application. Follow the steps in the <a href="#install-dev-tools">Installing OpenVINO Development Tools</a> section on this page to install it. In Step 4, make sure that you follow the instructions in the "C++" tab.
```

> Once OpenVINO Runtime is installed, you may install OpenVINO Development Tools for access to tools like Model Optimizer, Model Downloader, Benchmark Tool, and other utilities that will help you optimize your model and develop your application. Follow the steps in the <a href="openvino_docs_install_guides_install_dev_tools.html#install-dev-tools">Installing OpenVINO Development Tools</a> section on this page to install it. On Step 4, make sure to follow the instructions given in the "C++" tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once OpenVINO Runtime is installed, you may install OpenVINO Development Tools for access to tools like Model Optimizer, Model Downloader, Benchmark Tool, and other utilities that will help you optimize your model and develop your application. Follow the steps in the <a href="openvino_docs_install_guides_install_dev_tools.html#install-dev-tools">Installing OpenVINO Development Tools</a> section on this page to install it. In Step 4, make sure that you follow the instructions in the "C++" tab.
```

   
      openvino_env\Scripts\activate
     
.. important::

  The above command must be re-run every time a new command terminal window is opened.
  
@endsphinxdirective

### Step 3. Set Up and Update PIP to the Highest Version
Make sure `pip` is installed in your environment and upgrade it to the latest version by issuing the following command:

```sh
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
```

### Step 4. Install the Package

> To install and configure the components of the development package for working with specific frameworks, use the commands below. Note the commands are different for a Python installation and a C++ installation. If you want to develop with Python only, follow the instructions in the "Python" tab. If you want to develop with C++, first make sure you have installed OpenVINO Runtime using archive files as stated in the <a href="openvino_docs_install_guides_install_dev_tools.html#cpp-developers">For C++ Developers</a> section at the top of this page, then follow the instructions in the "C++" tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install and configure the components of the development package for working with specific frameworks, use the commands below.

Note that the commands are different for a Python installation and a C++ installation. If you want to develop with Python only, follow the instructions in the **Python** tab. If you want to develop with C++, first make sure you have installed OpenVINO Runtime using archive files as stated in the <a href="#cpp-developers">For C++ Developers</a> section, then follow the instructions in the **C++** tab.
```

    
   .. code-block:: sh
   
      pip install openvino-dev[EXTRAS]==2022.2
      
  where the EXTRAS parameter specifies one or more deep learning frameworks via these values: caffe, kaldi, mxnet, onnx, pytorch, tensorflow, tensorflow2. Make sure that you install the corresponding frameworks for your models. For example: 
      
   .. code-block:: sh
    
      pip install openvino-dev[tensorflow2,onnx]==2022.2
   
   .. note::
      
      Model Optimizer support for TensorFlow 1.x environment has been deprecated. Use the `tensorflow2` parameter or to install a TensorFlow 2.x environment that can convert both TensorFlow 1.x and 2.x models. If your model isn't compatible with the TensorFlow 2.x environment, use the `tensorflow` parameter to install the TensorFlow 1.x environment. The TF 1.x environment is provided only for legacy compatibility reasons.
     
@endsphinxdirective

For more details on the openvino-dev PyPI package, see https://pypi.org/project/openvino-dev/.

### Step 4. Test the Installation

To verify the package is properly installed, run the command below (this may take a few seconds):

```sh
mo -h
```

> You will see the help message for Model Optimizer if installation finished successfully. If you get an error, visit the <a href="openvino_docs_get_started_guide_troubleshooting.html">Troubleshooting Guide</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will see the help message for Model Optimizer if installation finished successfully. If you get an error, refer to the [Troubleshooting Guide](./troubleshooting.md) for possible solutions.
```
